Smells so good!
What are you cooking?
I really want to eat it!
My sister's making braised food again!
-What is it?
-I won't tell you.
Ning.
Tell Mrs. Zhao not to make dinner tonight.
We'll bring them fatty intestine noodles.
Go ahead.
I really want some.
Little foodie, go on.
Mrs. Zhao.
Changyu said you don't need
to cook dinner tonight.
She'll cook you fatty intestine noodles.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
Time for dinner!
Mr. Zhao made you a crutch.
Thank you.
No pig tails.
Today we'll eat meat gourds,
tomorrow we'll have braised pig tails.
Forgot the rule taught by Mother?
How impolite. Let the guest eat first.
Sir, you eat first.
Thank you.
You've been eating congee for a few days.
Will one bowl of noodles be enough?
One bowl of noodles
-is enough.
-You're recovering, you should eat more.
Have more.
Thank you.
Tasty?
Yes.
What is this meat gourd?
Fatty intestines.
Pig intestines.
I was afraid
you wouldn't be used to offal.
Seeing you enjoy it puts my mind at ease.
Don't worry.
I washed the feces inside until it was…
I…
I already washed it very clean.
It's just that Mr. Zhao likes the kind
that's only washed once.
He says a bit of funk makes it tastier.
You gave me quite a fright!
What?
Do I need to report to you
when I'm about to sneeze?
-You scared me!
-Well, I can't control it.
Are you done?
There's still so much left.
I haven't recovered my strength yet.
I'm already full.
-Really?
-Yes.
-Don't waste it.
Go ahead. Eat.
You usually eat things like this?
How could we eat it every day?
The Spring Festival is almost here.
Only when other households slaughter pigs
do they give Changyu some offal.
I haven't had fatty intestine noodles
in a long time.
Thanks for the noodles.
Tomorrow we'll eat pig tails
because she is going to slaughter a pig.
-You know how to slaughter pigs?
-No.
I'm a delicate girl.
How could I do that?
She is talking nonsense.
Don't listen to her.
Stay put. And be quiet.
Ning, come here.
We're playing hide and seek.
Open the door!
She's a butcher.
Be a good pig in this life.
Be a good person in the next!
I slaughter pigs to feed you.
Changning, wash your face.
Come.
Changyu, where's your silver hairpin?
-I pawned it.
-You pawned the hairpin Mother gave you?
Mother will be upset.
Don't worry.
I made an agreement with Shopkeeper Luo.
When I earn money,
I'll redeem it immediately.
Is Ms. Fan here?
Ms. Fan.
-Chef Li sent me to pick up half a pig.
-Alright.
-Here's the money for the pork.
-Thanks.
Take care.
Changyu, when did you slaughter the pig?
I did it at the break of dawn.
Stop telling people
your sister is a butcher.
You pawned the hairpin
to support that handsome gentleman?
Lower your voice. Someone might hear.
I'm doing it to help someone.
But Mrs. Zhao is right.
Feeding a man is really expensive.
I need to work even harder to earn money.
SOUTH MARKET
PORK
FAN'S PORK SHOP
DUMPLING RESTAURANT
You're covered in sweat.
Are you impressed?
Father, Mother, I've brought food.
Look.
You got covered in sweat,
just like your father.
-Let's eat.
-All right.
Let's go.
Here, Father.
Mother.
Ning.
-How is it, Father?
-Delicious.
I love your cooking.
Changyu.
Your family's pork shop
is going to reopen?
Yes.
Just like my parents.
GUO'S PORK STALL, FAN'S PORK STALL
Hello. Welcome!
How about this piece of meat?
This one is fresh.
Fresh?
YAN'S NOODLE RESTAURANT
Fresh. Guaranteed fresh.
How do you sell your offal?
Madam.
Today we don't sell it separately.
Today our shop is newly opened.
Buy a jin of pork, get an extra liang
of offal. First come, first served.
That's such a good deal.
Then give me five jin of pork belly.
All right!
Our pork belly is 20 mace per jin.
You are our first customer today,
so we'll charge you 18.
You've a sharp mind for trade.
I'll buy from you again next time.
Here, take the pork.
All right.
This is the offal for you.
-Come again.
-Thank you.
Here's the money.
-Come again next time.
-I sure will.
-Good.
How do you sell the meat?
The meat is very fresh.
The belly is 20 mace per jin.
Give me one jin.
Buy a jin of pork,
get an extra liang of offal.
This is for you.
-Hey! Fan Changyu!
-Thank you.
-Changyu, stop selling!
-Mr. Guo.
You can't break the rules
when doing business, right?
You opened your shop, fine.
What do you mean by giving freebies?
Mr. Guo.
I'm giving freebies today
because it's a new opening,
for good luck.
Which rule did I break?
This counts as breaking the rules.
Who sells pork
and gives away offal for free?
Alright, Guo Dali.
Don't argue with a junior.
She's only selling half a pig.
-I'm talking to her, not you
-Right, Mr. Guo.
You think losing my parents
makes me easy to push around?
Exactly!
You can't do that.
-Bullying a young lady.
-It's bullying.
You're too outrageous!
Fine.
Just for today. Do not do so tomorrow.
All right!
I only planned to do so
for one day anyway.
Go ahead.
You're always meddling.
I still have to sell it for money.
Fan's Pork Stall is newly opened!
Buy pork, get braised offal for free!
Twenty mace per jin, especially fresh!
Pork belly, 20 mace per jin today!
-How much do you want?
-One jin.
-Three jin.
Two hundred seventy,
two hundred eighty,
two hundred ninety.
Changyu!
-M. Zhao, today I earned--
-Stop talking.
Your uncle brought those lackeys
from the gambling den.
They're ransacking your house
looking for the title deed.
What?
Scoundrels.
Changyu, why are you carrying a knife?
Don't do anything rash!
Oh no, someone might die.
Song Yan, open the door quickly!
Song Yan.
Song Yan!
Song Yan, the Fan couple treated you well.
Come out and speak up for Changyu!
Song Yan.
Song Yan, open the door quickly!
I know you're in there.
Song Yan.
Saving a life is what matters, Song Yan!
Sit down and focus on your studies.
-Mother.
-Song Yan, open the door quickly!
Changyu is in trouble. I must go see.
That Fan Daniu is Fan Changyu's uncle.
That's the Fan family's private matter.
What does it have to do with us?
If I can't keep my own house in order,
what business do I have
chasing rank or governing others?
If you walk out that door,
you can forget about
ever sitting the exams.
Song Yan.
All those books you read,
and not a shred of backbone.
Aren't you afraid
your father's spirit
will be shamed in his grave?
Yan,
we went to so much trouble
to break off the engagement
with that jinx.
If you stand up for her today,
wouldn't that give those gossipmongers
chances to tarnish your reputation
for no reason?
Mrs. Zhao, just stop shouting.
Changyu had her engagement broken off.
You tell me, why should the mother
and son care about her?
-Kang. That's enough.
-She lost her parents, so she's pitiful?
Well, my mother died long ago too.
Who pitied me?
There, there.
Song Yan! Song Yan, open the door quickly!
-Mrs. Zhao! Mrs. Zhao!
-Song Yan!
What's wrong with Ning?
She keeps gasping for breath!
Ning!
Ning, don't be afraid.
Come. Don't panic.
Stay calm.
She's here.
She's carrying a knife.
She won't kill a few people, will she?
His brother has barely been laid to rest,
and he's already after his nieces' home.
Even a rabbit bites when cornered.
-Ning.
-Are you alright, Changyu?
Madam Zhuang, Mrs. Zhao.
-Look after her for me.
-I will.
Go, go, go.
Let's see if we can help.
Stop right there!
Changyu, you're here.
MR. JIN
You made it, Ms. Fan.
Take your men and get out of here.
The gambling den operates by the rules.
Fan Daniu says this house is his.
So I came for the title deed
to pay off his debt.
You told him this house is yours?
Changyu.
I was also forced into a corner
with no other way.
My dear niece,
please help your uncle out.
Let me use this house to pay off my debt,
and from now on,
I'll treat you and Ning
as my own daughters, okay?
If you want to pay off a debt,
why not use your own house?
If I use my own house,
where will your aunt and I live?
You and Ning
will get married in the future.
Keeping this house won't be of much use.
What my parents left for me and Ning,
how I handle it is my business.
Hear that? This house isn't his.
I'm your own uncle!
Come here. Come here!
-Mr. Jin! Mr. Jin!
-Don't move!
Mr. Jin!
If the title deed isn't handed over today,
then I'll have no choice
but to chop off one of his hands.
I'll only give you three seconds.
One.
Two.
Use this cleaver.
HAVE A FULL MEAL
The blade is sharp.
One chop down,
everything will be severed.
It will also make my uncle suffer less.
You… You…
You're joking, right?
You started the joke.
Fan Changyu!
You brought death
to your father and mother.
Are you going to bring death to me too?
You, a broken-off engagement,
unwanted brat,
and you still want to seize this property
for your dowry?
Why don't you see who the hell
dares to marry you, jinx?
You.
Get back to your house.
Otherwise, they'll take one of your hands,
and I'll take your life!
I'll kill you first,
then go down and apologize to my parents!
Miss.
Our gambling den also follows reason.
According to the Dayin Code,
no male heir means
it passes to the nearest kin.
If one brother dies, the other inherits.
Even if you go to the court,
this house will still go to Fan Daniu.
That's right.
Gambling den people are so reasonable.
Since the Dayin Code says it's mine,
why are you still standing here?
Give me…
Mr. Jin, let's keep searching.
Search carefully.
SPIRIT TABLET OF MENG LIHUA
SPIRIT TABLET OF FAN ERNIU
Father.
If I disobey and break your commandment,
please don't be angry.
Ning.
Turn around and count to ten.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
-Leave now, or else.
-Eight.
Fools, attack together!
Nine.
I only have to count to nine.
If a girl chases me off,
I'll lose face in this line of work!
Watch out!
Bullying an orphan girl in broad daylight!
Do you still have any…
Constable.
The broken items are all recorded here.
Compensate for these,
and today's matter will be settled.
Jin Yuanbao.
You're already 27 this year,
aren't you, kid?
Not settling down to build a career,
causing trouble all day long.
What would your grandmother say?
After we compensate for her losses,
who will compensate for our medicine?
Four grown men can't even handle one girl?
-I--
-No medicine money.
-I…
-Get lost, now.
Wait!
SPIRIT TABLET OF MENG LIHUA
SPIRIT TABLET OF FAN ERNIU
You knocked over
my parents' memorial tablets earlier.
You must apologize before you can leave.
Constable.
This house should belong to me.
If you want to claim the house, put it
in writing and submit it to the court.
I…
But damaging the memorial tablet,
if it goes to the court,
it's 20 strokes.
Mr. Fan, Mrs. Fan.
-We're sorry.
You are magnanimous. We were wrong.
The money.
You may leave.
-Let's go.
-Can I have a word?
-Go.
-Mr. Jin. Mr. Jin.
Mr. Jin.
Keep it for Changyu.
I knew it.
Asking for your help was right.
Although Fan Erniu has passed,
your friendship remains.
But regarding the house matter,
I'm afraid it's not over.
Changyu.
Forcing a young lady
to hold up this household.
What a sin.
Father.
The long-handled saber technique
you taught me,
which I must not reveal
in front of outsiders…
I didn't obey today.
I beg Father and Mother not to blame me.
Your father surely won't blame you.
With injuries like that,
you should be resting.
What are you doing out here?
It was too noisy earlier.
I couldn't sit still.
Fan Erniu.
Your father can not only slaughter pigs,
but also do saber techniques.
You heard everything.
Before he became a butcher,
my father was a convoy guard.
Your mother's name is Meng Lihua.
Is that her real name?
My mother was amazing.
She could read and write,
blend fragrances, and make powders.
Other butchers,
when they slaughter a pig at home,
they're covered in the smell.
But my home wasn't like that.
After the clothes were washed,
they were fumigated
with the fragrance Mother blended.
Not a trace of odor remained.
Fellows, nothing more here.
Stop looking.
Disperse. Go back.
Thank you.
Today, they were clearly wrong.
But what they said is right.
If Fan Daniu really submits a petition,
Changyu probably can't keep this house.
Then what should they do?
These two girls are now
alone and helpless.
You absolutely must help with this.
I never said I wouldn't help.
It's not without a solution.
How did your parents pass away?
Mountain bandits.
Father had his throat slit.
He died on the spot.
When Mother was brought back,
she still had a breath left.
She struggled for three or four hours,
just to say a word to me and Ning.
But in the end,
she couldn't utter half a sentence.
She just handed me
the hairpin in her hand.
I'm sure they won't blame you.
This gauze hasn't been stained with blood.
It's clean.
Thanks.
Compared to me,
your parents at least accompanied you.
At least you still have
your younger sister,
a close blood relative.
At least,
you have a home you've lived in for years.
But since childhood,
my parents have already been gone.
How did your parents die?
They died in the war.
Then we're both without parents.
Look at us, comparing who's had it worse.
Sorry for making you recall sad things.
Now you know,
I'm just a pig-slaughtering woman
with brute strength.
Laugh if you want.
You not only saved me,
but also raised money,
wanting to feed me.
If I laugh again, wouldn't that
make me an ungrateful snake?
Changyu. Changyu.
Mrs. Zhao is asking for you.
Don't tell them I cried.
Let's go.
Be careful.
Is his body okay?
Can he recover later?
At most, there might be some
lasting issues with his legs and feet.
-It won't affect anything else.
-Mr. and Mrs. Zhao.
You're here, Changyu.
Come here.
We have something to discuss with you.
-You've got snow in your hair.
-What's the matter?
So mysterious.
‎You tell her.
Mrs. Zhao, tell me.
I'll definitely do as you say.
A live-in husband?
This was Constable Wang's idea.
You can trust it.
You see, this way
your father will have an heir,
and the house will stay in your name.
Fan Daniu can not take it anymore.
Your parents only left this house
for you sisters.
If you lose this too, how will you live?
Exactly.
What girl marries without her parents
carefully choosing the match for her?
Changyu really has a hard life.
What good young man
would take a live-in marriage?
She has been forced to do so.
If she wants to keep the house,
she must take in a live-in husband.
What does it mean to take in a husband?
It means in the future,
find a man for your sister
who can live with her for a lifetime
and take good care of you.
-Then I want that handsome gentleman.
-No.
Why not?
Based on my years of experience
as a matchmaker,
he's a good young man.
Mrs. Zhao, you just said it yourself.
What good young man
would take a live-in marriage?
She has been a matchmaker
for over ten years.
She's seen more young men
than you've seen pigs.
You have to listen to the expert
on this matter.
Also, the war in Chongzhou is intense.
I heard they're recruiting again.
Now every household
is making arrangements for marriages,
just to leave an heir for the family.
Finding a live-in husband
is harder than reaching the sky!
-Anyway, he won't do.
-Why?
-He just won't do!
-What's wrong with him?
-He…
-Alright, alright, keep it down.
Well, Yan Zheng,
although he's quite badly injured,
after recovering, his legs and feet
might have lasting issues,
and he doesn't have
any identity or travel documents.
However,
the advantage is
he's readily available.
Right?
Changyu,
this settles both your problems at once.
You'd be helping each other.
It doesn't count as leveraging.
-But--
-Exactly so.
You just said
you'd definitely do as I say.
-Mrs. Zhao.
-What?
Mr. Zhao.
I know you two are doing this
for me and Changning's sake.
But I need time to think about it.
What's there to think about?
-Changyu.
Changyu.
Why are you sighing?
Talk to me.
What's wrong with that lad?
Is he…
not exactly fit for the job?
It's okay. I'll ask Mr. Zhao
to see if it can still be treated.
That's not what I meant.
Don't speculate about it.
What if he's unwilling?
Changyu, you're pretty as a peach
and can butcher hogs to feed a household.
He dares turn you down?
Besides, he doesn't even have
identity or travel documents.
Once married,
at least he won't be treated as a refugee
and forced into the vanguard.
I only just saved him,
and now I'd make him marry in?
This is holding past kindness over him.
Never mind whether he's willing.
Given enough time,
he might turn into another Song Yan.
Since ancient times,
unfaithful men are often scholars.
He's not a scholar.
He's not like that ungrateful Song Yan.
Mrs. Zhao.
Yan Zheng
is like a piece of high-quality jade
I found in the snow.
Beautiful,
smooth,
and valuable.
But it's not mine.
Even if I carve Fan Changyu on it,
he is not mine.
Then carve your name on it and keep it.
When someone comes, it's not like
we said we wouldn't return it.
He also said
once he's recovered, he will leave.
Once he has a virtuous
and capable wife like you
and lives a stable life,
how could he leave?
Maybe even if you drive him away,
he won't leave.
My dear, dear Mrs. Zhao.
Forcing him to marry
into the family of a butcher…
A melon forced off the vine is not sweet.
It doesn't need to be sweet.
Quench the thirst first.
If he dares to say no,
I'll throw him out.
Even a saved donkey
can still turn the millstone.
-If you don't tell him, I'll go.
-Don't!
I'll go tell him myself.
What's the matter?
Come in.
I…
I want…
I want to wash your clothes.
-They're clean…
-No need to be polite.
…set of clothes.
Where did the clothes come from?
I stole them.
I'm going to wash clothes.
I'll help you.
Here.
Yan Zheng.
Will you marry into my family?
Is that okay?
When my injuries heal and I leave,
I will naturally give you money.
I don't want money. I want you.
If you say no, see if I don't beat you up.
If I don't beat you to death,
you'll have to pay even more for medicine.
You…
Stop yelping.
This is serious.
You are now playing the role of Yan Zheng.
Be serious.
Yesterday, the man failed
to seize the title deed.
Next,
he will submit a petition
to the authorities.
If I want to keep this house,
the only way
is to take in a live-in husband.
Father and Mother are dead.
Only this house is left.
Even if it's for Ning's sake,
I can't lose this home.
I'm not necessarily forcing you
to marry into my family.
I'm just…
here to ask.
The air is dry.
Beware of fire.
Come in.
Mr. and Mrs. Zhao are already asleep.
I was worried
no one was looking after you.
Blood loss has left you chilled.
This tea water is cold.
Better not drink it.
I made some soup for you.
Thank you.
This is…
Pig liver soup. It nourishes the blood.
There was still some offal left
from yesterday's sales,
so I cooked this for you.
It's a bit hot.
I'll drink it later.
You don't like pig offal, right?
Yesterday's fatty intestine noodles too,
you only ate a few bites.
The pig liver soup too.
I wouldn't say I dislike it.
It's just that I'm somewhat…
not used to it.
But…
This is best I can provide.
This can nourish your blood.
It's good for you.
Just drink it as if it were medicine.
I'll go now.
Ms. Fan.
I agree.
Then drink it while it's warm.
What I mean is…
about marrying into your family.
I agree.
Good.
If you stay,
I'll slaughter pigs to feed you.
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Peng Peng